FYP-II Progress Report

 Supervisor: Sir Nadeem Kafi



Group Members:

Name: Syed Ghazanfer Anwar

Roll #: 16K-3891

Name: Salman Arshad

Roll #: 16K-3898



 

 

 FYP-II Progress Report



Project Description:

By the advancement in modern era we have a handsome amount of data, but the data is often not in a good quality or some fine tuning is required to it.  If we refer to image data, the images are often in low resolution and some major details are missing in the image. To counter this problem there is a technique called Image Super Resolution. Enhancing the quality of a lower resolution image by adding missing pixels and texture details by increasing its dimensions (upscaling) is known as Image super Resolution (ISR).

ISR has been an area of interest for a past decade but techniques used like bicubic interpolation were not giving satisfactory results. So, new methods have been proposed which includes usage of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), Generative Adversarial Network and Residual Networks to achieve Image Super Resolution. The paper SRGAN uses GANs along with Residual Networks for the Generator (Part of GANs that generates data). We have implemented two research papers A fully progressive approach to single-image super-resolution and Photo-realistic single image super-resolution using a generative adversarial network. 

Work done in FYP-I:

In our FYP-I, we have studied basic Deep learning concepts including Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Further, to understand image super resolution in a better way we have also implemented two research papers, the first one is Photo-Realistic Single Image Super-Resolution Using a Generative Adversarial Network and the second one is A Fully Progressive Approach to Single-Image Super-Resolution and got the expected results, similar to what achieved in the research paper.

Schedule plan for FYP-II:

In our FYP-II we are trying to propose a new Image super resolution method based on previous research. We are proposing two methods for image super resolution.                                  

The first approach is to first super resolve the image and then apply enhancement technique to the image. This might allow the image to achieve much better image quality and realistic sharpness.

The second approach is that we will split the image in blocks (Multiple of 2) and then super resolve each block for better feature extraction. We hope to achieve better results as each block will have its own unique features to be extracted and hence result in sharp images.

Further, we will also be making a web application on Flask that will contain all our implemented techniques; Two implemented research papers and our own proposed method.

Timeline of FYP-II:

Following is our FYP-II timeline.

Phase 1: March 1st, 2020 to April 15th

In this time period we will implement our approaches as discussed above and try to contribute to the community by trying to improve Image Super Resolution.

Phase 2: April 16th, 2020 to April 29th

In this time period we will report our findings in a research paper format and try to publish our paper in a journal.

Phase 3: April 30th, 2020 to May 10th

In this time period we will create a web portal for our previously implemented model and for your own proposed one.



Work done from FYP-1 till mid-evaluation date:

We have currently explored the two approaches discussed above that is the approach to split the image in blocks (Multiple of 2) and then perform the super resolution on individual blocks and eventually combining the blocks to create the super resolved image and second approach is to  super resolve the image using the existing algorithms and then use a filtering algorithm to enhance the quality of the image.

After the exploration part we have started the work on the approach of super resolving the image and then implementing the algorithm to enhance the image, regain the sharpness and remove any checkerboard artifacts. For that we are conducting several experiments and trying different approaches.